Morning, Bastian.
Morning, Dad.
Oh!
I had another dream, Dad.
About Mom.
I understand, son.
But we have to get on
with things, right?
Bastian, we each have
responsibilities.
We can't let Mom's death...
..be an excuse for not
getting the old job done, right?
Yeah.
Son, I think it's time
you and I had a little talk.
I got a call from your
math teacher yesterday.
She says that you were drawing
horses in your math book.
Unicorns. They were unicorns.
What?
Nothing.
She also says you haven't been
turning in your homework on time.
And I'm very disappointed you didn't
try out for the swimming team.
As to those riding lessons
you wanted, you say you love horses
and yet you seem to be afraid
to get on a real one.
Now, Bastian, you're old enough to
get your head down out of the clouds
and start keeping both feet
on the ground, right?
OK.
Stop daydreaming...
start facing your problems.
OK?
OK.
There, I think we've had a nice talk.
We should have more.
You have a good day, son.
Don't be late for school again.
But yesterday I wasn't.
Hey, it's the weirdo.
Hey, weirdo,
got any cash for us today?
Come on wimp
Let's get him!
Yeah!
Hey!
You're dead, weirdo!
You can't get away, you jerk!
You're dead, chicken!
We're gonna get you!
Where's your money, man?
I don't have any!
No money?
Mama's boy's holding out on us.
If you ain't got no money on ya,
you can go in the garbage can.
No!
Yeah, alright!
Way to go!
Maybe the chicken
can lay an egg in there.
Hey, who said you could
get out of the garbage?
Get back in there!
No, not again.
No, not again!
Where do you think you're going?!
He went that way!
Which way?
That way!
MAN: Get outta here!
I don't like kids.
Are you still here?
Didn't you hear me?
Um... I was...
You're hiding, aren't you?
No, I was just...
The video arcade is down the street.
Here we just sell small rectangular
objects. They're called books.
They require a little effort on
your part and make no b-b-b-b-beeps.
On your way, please.
I know books.
I have 186 of them at home.
Ah... comic books.
No, I've read `Treasure Island',
`The Last of the Mohicans',
`Wizard of Oz', `Lord of the Rings',
`20,000 Leagues Under the Sea',
`Tarzan'...
Whoa, whoa, whoa.
Come.
Who were you running away from?
Um... just some kids from school.
Why?
They wanna throw me in the garbage.
Why don't you give 'em
a good punch in the nose? Hmm?
Well... I don't know.
What's that book about?
Oh, this is something special.
Well, what is it?
Look, your books are safe.
By reading them you get to become
Tarzan or Robinson Crusoe.
But that's what I like about them.
Ah, but afterwards you get to be
a little boy again.
What... what do you mean?
Listen...
..have you ever been Captain Nemo,
trapped inside your submarine
while the giant squid
is attacking you?
Yes.
Weren't you afraid
you couldn’t escape?
But it's only a story.
That's what I'm talking about.
The ones you read are safe.
And that one isn't?
Don't worry about it.
What's so different about it?
Nothing
But... but you just said it was...
Forget about it.
This book is not for you.
Koreander's.
Oh, yes. What can I do for you?
No, I don't have it.
But I can find it for you.
Well... their run may be 300, 375.
Might take me a couple of weeks.
Goodbye.
Don't be angry, I'll bring back soon
BASTIAN: Math test. Oh, no.
It was midnight
in the Howling Forest.
The wind whistled through the tops
of the ancient trees.
Suddenly, something enormous
crashed and rumbled
through the eerie woods.
What's that?
Ah!
Excuse me. Would it be alright
if I joined you this evening?
You see, I've been traveling
all day.
Arggh!
Mmm
Aha!
Now I see why you picked this camp.
Now...
Oh... oh...
Oh. Oh, no!
Oh...
A delicious-looking limestone rock.
Nice bouquet.
Must be a real vintage year.
Yes, you are right.
Those delicious rocks are the reason
we camped here, alright.
Is he... a nut case?
No, he's a rock biter.
A rock bi... A rock biter?!
Hey!
Now...
Oops. Sorry.
Poor baby.
Pardon me. Mmm... that was Limestone
with a dash of quartz.
Very tasty.
Where I come from in the north
we used to have exquisite
gourmet rocks.
Only now... now...
..they're all gone.
I know how it happened.
Ooh! I... I swear it wasn't me.
Ha! No.
I think I know what it was.
Tell us more.
Near my home, there used to be
a beautiful lake.
But then... then it... it was gone.
Did the Lake dry up?
No, it just wasn't there anymore.
Nothing was there anymore.
Not even a dried-up Lake.
A hole?
A hole would be something.
No, it was nothing.
And it got bigger and bigger.
First, there was no Lake anymore,
and then finally... no rocks.
If he keeps stuffing his face
like that
soon there won't be
any rocks here either.
Night Hob, this could be serious!
Rock Biter, what you have told us
is also happening
where I live in the west.
A strange sort of nothing
is destroying everything.
Yes. We night hobs Live in
the south, and it's there too.
So... it's... it's... not just
in our part of Fantasia?
Maybe...
..it's already everywhere.
Maybe our whole land is in danger.
Uh-huh.
What can we do?
My people are sending me to the Ivory
Tower, to the Empress for help.
BOTH: We are on the same...
Shh.
We are on the same mission.
After all, if the Empress
can't save us, who could?
Then why are we all
just sitting around here
instead of taking off
for the Ivory Tower?
Right! What are we waiting for?
Yes! Yes! Let's go now.
Hey, wake up.
Come on, old girl.
We can't just hang around here.
Wake up. Ready for take-off.
Oh, stupid bat!
We can't wait for a snail.
Can I carry you?
Don't worry, it's a racing snail.
Oh. But we can't even wait
for a racing snail.
Tally-ho!
Hey... it really is a racing snail.
And nobody gives a hoot
about me and my stupid bat.
Maybe I'll take a few of these
yummy gourmet rocks for the road.
Oh, no.
The Nothing.
Look!
There it is.
The heart of Fantasia.
I NEVER knew it was that beautiful.
Ohhh.
Stay awake!
I told you to stay awake.
The home of the Empress.
She's our only hope.
Friends, I know why you are all here.
The Nothing...
..is destroying our world.
I also know that you have come
to beseech... the Empress for help.
But I... I have terrible news.
The Empress herself
has become deathly ill.
Ooh.
There seems to be a mysterious link
between her illness and the Nothing.
She's dying.
So she cannot save... us.
But there just might be one chance.
The plainspeople who hunt
the purple buffalo have among them
a great warrior,
and he alone has a chance
to fight the Nothing and save us.
He is our only hope.
His name... is Atreyu.
Atreyu.
The Empress had already
sent for the great warrior.
When he finally appeared
on the terrace of the Ivory Tower,
he carried with him
the hopes of all Fantasia.
A Little boy.
I'm sorry, but this is not
the time nor place for children.
I must ask you to leave.
If you don't want me here,
you shouldn’t have sent for me.
Is he a nut case?
It was not you we sent for.
We wanted Atreyu.
I AM Atreyu.
Not Atreyu the child -
Atreyu the warrior!
I'm the only Atreyu
of the plainspeople.
But I'll be happy to go back
hunting the purple buffalo.
No. Wait!
Come back, please.
If you really ARE
the Atreyu we sent for,
you would be willing
to go on a quest.
Yes. Of course.
What kind of a quest?
To find a cure for the Empress.
And to save our world.
No-one can give you
any advice except this.
You must go alone, you must
Leave all your weapons behind.
It will be very dangerous.
Is there any chance of success?
I do not know.
But if you fail,
the Empress will surely die.
And our whole world
will be utterly destroyed.
When do I begin?
Now.
And you must hurry, Atreyu.
The Nothing grows
stronger every day.
Take this.
The AURYN.
He who wears the AURYN
speaks for the Empress.
It will guide and protect you.
Wake up!
Farewell, Atreyu!
Take care.
At the same time,
elsewhere in Fantasia,
a creature of darkness
also began his quest.
They had been traveling aimlessly
for almost a week,
but they could not find
a cure for the Empress.
Neither Atreyu,
nor his horse, Artax,
had the vaguest suspicion that
the creature of darkness, the Gmork,
was already tracking them down.
What? What is it, Artax?
Is it time to...
I know what you want.
It's time to eat. Hmm?
Good idea.
No. It's a GREAT idea!
No. Not too much.
We still have a LONG way to go.
Atreyu and Artax had searched
the Silver Mountains,
the Desert of Shattered Hopes,
and the Crystal Towers
without success.
And so, there was
only one chance left.
To find Morla, the Ancient One,
the wisest being in Fantasia,
whose home was the Shell Mountain,
somewhere in the deadly
Swamps of Sadness.
Come on, boy. Come on.
That's the boy. That's the boy.
It's OK.
You're doing fine, Artax.
That's right.
Come on, Artax.
What's the matter?
What's wrong?
Come on, boy!
What's the matter?
I understand.
It's too difficult for you.
Artax! You're sinking!
Come on! Turn around!
You have to! NOW!
COME ON! ARTAX!
Fight against the Sadness, Artax!
Artax, please.
You're letting the sadness
of the swamps get to you.
You have to try.
You have to care.
For me.
You're my friend.
I love you.
ARTAX! STUPID HORSE!
You've gotta move, or you'll die!
Move, please!
I won't give up! Come, quick!
ARTAX!
The Shell Mountain.
Morla. The Ancient One.
Morla!
Mmm.
Arggh!
Huh?
But that's impossible!
They couldn’t have heard me.
Are you Morla?
The Ancient One?
Not that it matters, but yes.
Please help me, Morla!
Do you recognize this?
Well...
..we haven't seen the AURYN
in a long time.
We?
Is there someone else here too?
We haven't spoken to anyone else
for thousands of years.
So, we started talking to ourselves.
AH-CHOO!
Morla, I bring terrible news!
Did you know that
the Empress is very ill?
Not that it matters, but yes.
Actually, we don't care.
If I don't save her, she'll die!
There's a terrible Nothing
sweeping over the Land!
Don't you care about that?
We don't even care
whether or not we care.
Do you have a cold?
No.
We're allergic to you.
AH-CHOO!
You know how I can help
the Empress, don't you?
Not that it matters,
but yes.
If you don't tell me, and the Nothing
keeps coming, you'll die too!
BOTH of you!
Die?
That, at least, would be something.
Please help me.
You said you knew the...
AH-CHOO!
We're tired of sneezing. Go away.
Nothing matters.
That's not true!
If it didn't really matter,
you could tell me.
Clever boy.
TELL ME, PLEASE!
We don't know.
But you can ask the Southern Oracle.
How can I get there?
You can't.
It's 10,000 miles away.
But that's so far.
That's right.
Forget it.
Goodbye.
No.
Atreyu wouldn’t quit now.
Oh, boy.
After days and nights
of unconsciousness,
Atreyu slowly opened his eyes,
and found himself
in strange surroundings.
He was clean,
and his wounds were dressed.
Huh?
Leaving so soon?
Hmm?
I was just going to...
I...have to...
I was trying to s...
Sneak away?
Yeah.
I mean, no. No!
I LIKE children.
For breakfast?
Never.
I'm a luckdragon.
My name is Falkor.
And my name is...
Atreyu.
And you're on a quest.
How'd you know that?
You were unconscious.
And you talked in your sleep.
What?
Could you... get round...
and scratch behind my right ear?
I can never quite reach it.
Here?
Ah.
Yeah.
That's SO good.
Thank you.
So, Little fella,
you're on your way
to the Southern Oracle?
Yes. But it's hopeless!
It's too far away!
Oh, I wouldn’t necessarily say that.
You... you know how to get there?
Why, sure.
It's right around the corner.
How did all this happen?!
With luck.
You've already brought me
the entire 10,000 miles?
No. Only 9,891.
As the dragon flies.
You're amazing!
Having a Luckdragon with you
is the only way to go on a quest.
Things will work out fine, Atreyu.
Never give up,
and good Luck will find you.
It's good to have a friend again.
Mmm.
You have more than one.
Look.
Get out of my light, wench!
You're disturbing
my scientific work!
You and your scientific work!
What the boy needs now
is one of my potions!
The boy will need
my scientific advice much more.
Yes, yes.
But not until he's well.
Get back to your own room.
I'm going this way.
I'm always finding you in MY place.
Ah! He's well.
Now it's MY turn with him.
Oh, no, you don't!
I decide when he's well.
It's your turn
when I say it's your turn.
Well, Little man. Still in pain?
Mmm... a Little. But it's alright.
I like that!
The patient telling
the doctor it's alright?
It's all right, when I say it's all right
It has to hurt if it's to heal!
Here. Drink that.
Good, mmm?
That's my batwing broth.
There's eye of newt in there.
Tree mold, old lizard brains,
scales from a rancid sea serpent!
Flavored with sand worms
Organic grown of course
Just where did you
and your dragon come from?
What are you onto?
Anything of interest to
the scientific community?
He thinks he is scientific community
My name's Atreyu. I came here
to find the Southern Oracle.
Oooh...
Here we go again!
You've come
to the right place, my boy.
I am somewhat of an expert
on the Southern Oracle.
It is my scientific specialty.
It's my scientific specialty!
Why don't you sit down
and be quiet for once?
YOU keep quiet, wench!
Oooh!
It's now MY turn.
My name is Engywook. She's Urgl.
Ever heard of me?
I don't think so.
Oh. You don't move
in scientific circles.
I am the expert
on the Southern Oracle!
Oooh... you've come
to the right place, my boy!
There's no fool like an old fool.
Wait! Stay here.
The observatory!
To the winch, wench!
Come on, lazybones!
Can't you go any faster?!
I've been studying the mysteries
of the Southern Oracle for years.
Someday, I'll publish my book.
`A Century of Studying
the Southern Oracle'
by Professor Engywook.
Volume 1, `The Early Years'.
Have you ever been
to the Southern Oracle?
Eh... what do YOU think?
I work scientifically!
Look!
Is that the Southern Oracle?
Oh, no!
It's the first of the two gates
you must pass through
before you reach
the Southern Oracle
and get me the final information
for my book!
Of course, most people...
..never get that far.
Why?
The sphinxes' eyes stay closed
until someone who does not
feel his own worth tries to pass by.
Here comes one that LOOKS fancy.
Let's see what he REALLY
thinks of himself.
Look. Look!
Hee! Hee!
Go on, scaredy-cat!
Oh, go ON!
Oh, it's my turn. Let me see.
I'M the scientist!
He's going on.
I think he's gonna make it!
The sphinxes' eyes -
are they open or shut?
Let me see!
They're shut.
No, wait! The eyes are opening!
Oh, no!
Did he make it? Did he?
No.
Fancy Armour doesn't help.
The sphinxes can see
straight into your heart.
Listen, boy!
Next time, Let ME see what happens!
It's MY telescope!
I'm gonna try it.
No!
Don't go yet!
I've not told you
about the next gate!
It's even WORSE than this one!
Atreyu!
Oh... he'll never make it!
He'll never make it!
Oh, no!
Don't start to doubt yourself!
Be confident!
Be confident! Be confident!
RUN, ATREYU! RUN!
RUN, ATREYU!
RUN! NOW!
He made it! He made it!
He made it!
Arggh!
It has to hurt if it's to heal!
He made it!
Atreyu! He made it
through the Sphinx Gate!
I always said he could do it.
Oh, good!
But that's no reason for you
to fall out of the basket again.
Oh.
I knew he would be safe.
Nonsense!
You don't understand anything!
The worst one is coming up.
Next is the Magic Mirror Gate.
Atreyu has to face his true self!
So what?
That won't be too hard for him.
Oh!
That's what EVERYONE thinks.
But kind people
find that they are cruel.
Brave men discover
that they are really cowards!
Confronted with their true selves,
most men run away screaming!
This is going too far.
What if they...
..really DO know about me
in Fantasia?
The Southern Oracle?
WOMEN: Do not be afraid.
We will not harm you.
We have been waiting for you
a long time, Atreyu.
Are you the Southern Oracle?
Yes. We are.
Then you must know
what can save Fantasia!
Yes. We do.
Well, what is it?
I have to know!
The Empress needs a new name.
A new name?
That's all?
But that's easy!
I can give her any name she wants!
No-one from Fantasia can do it.
Only a human child
can give her this new name.
A human child? Where can I find one?
You can only find one
beyond the boundaries of Fantasia.
If you want to save our world,
you must hurry!
We don't know how much longer
we can withstand the Nothing.
FALKOR!
Hurry, Falkor!
The Nothing's everywhere!
Don't worry.
We'll reach
the boundaries of Fantasia.
Do you know where they are?
I have NO idea.
Then how do we find a human child?
With luck!
Faster, Falkor. Faster!
We have to hurry!
Alright! Hang on tight!
Yeah!
Whoa!
Wahoo!
Wow! Whoa!
What a shame they don't ask me.
My mother, she had
such a wonderful name.
On and on they flew,
until they reached
the Sea of Possibilities,
where they could go no further.
FALKOR: Look, Atreyu. The Nothing!
Hang on!
Falkor!
Atreyu!
FALKOR!
FALKOR! WHERE ARE YOU?!
Falkor!
Atreyu! Where are you?!
Atreyu!
Falkor!
Falkor.
Atreyu!
They look like big, good,
strong hands, don't they?
I always thought
that's what they were.
My Little friends.
The Little man
with his racing snail.
The Night Hob.
Even the stupid bat.
I couldn’t hold on to them.
The Nothing pulled them
right out of my hands.
I failed.
No, you didn't fail.
I'm the one who failed.
I was the one chosen
to stop the Nothing.
But I lost the AURYN.
I can't find my luckdragon.
So I won't be able to get
beyond the boundaries of Fantasia!
Listen.
The Nothing will be here any minute.
I will just sit here
and Let it take me away too.
They look like good,
strong hands, don't they?
Mm-hm.
Morla?
Artax!
Leave me alone!
Can I help you?
If you come any closer...
..I will rip you to shreds.
Who are you?
I am the Gmork.
And you, whoever you are,
can have the honor of being
my last victim.
I will not die easily.
I am a warrior.
Ha!
Brave warrior.
Then fight the Nothing.
But I can't!
I can't get beyond
the boundaries of Fantasia.
What's so funny about that?
Fantasia has no boundaries.
That's not true!
You're lying!
Foolish boy.
Don't you know anything
about Fantasia?
It's the world of human fantasy!
Every part,
every creature of it,
is a piece of the dreams
and hopes of mankind.
Therefore, it has no boundaries.
But why is Fantasia dying, then?
Because people have begun
to lose their hopes,
and forget their dreams.
So the Nothing grows stronger.
What IS the Nothing?
It's the emptiness that's Left.
It is like a despair
destroying this world,
and I have been trying to help it.
But why?!
Because people who have no hopes
are easy to control.
And whoever has the control
has the power.
Who are you really?
I am the servant...
..of the power behind the Nothing.
I was sent to kill the only one
who could have stopped the Nothing.
I lost him in the Swamps of Sadness.
His name... was Atreyu.
I have stalked him for so long
I am almost too weak to kill you
But I will find the strength
Let me give you news strength Gmork
If we're about to die anyway,
I'd rather die fighting!
Come for me, Gmork!
I am Atreyu!
Falkor!
Atreyu!
Got you!
That was the end of Fantasia.
Only a few fragments
of this once rich and beautiful world
had been Left by the Nothing.
ATREYU: Good old Falkor.
Can you see anything?
Anything at all?
No.
All the Land is gone.
I know.
And all because I failed.
You tried.
Do you suppose the Ivory Tower
is still standing?
Let's hope so, Atreyu.
Let's hope so.
Let the AURYN guide you.
If the Ivory Tower still stands,
take us there.
Falkor!
The Ivory Tower!
The Empress.
Atreyu.
Why do you look so sad?
I failed you, Empress.
No, you haven't.
You brought him with you.
Who?
The earthling child.
The one who can save us all.
You knew about the earthling child?
Of course. I knew everything.
My horse died. I nearly drown.
I just barely got away
from the Nothing!
For what? To find out
what you already knew?!
It was the only way
to get in touch with an earthling.
But I DIDN'T get in touch
with an earthling!
Yes, you did.
He has suffered with you.
He went through
everything you went through.
And now he has come here with you.
He is very close,
listening to every word we say.
WHAT?!
Where is he?
If he's so close,
why doesn't he arrive?
He doesn't realise he's already
a part of the Neverending Story.
The Neverending Story? What's that?
Just as he is sharing
all your adventures,
others are sharing his.
They were with him when he hid
from the boys in the bookstore.
But that's impossible!
They were with him
when he took the book
with the AURYN symbol on the cover,
in which he's reading
his own story right now.
I can't believe it!
They can't be talking about me.
What will happen
if he doesn't appear?
Then our world will disappear.
And so will I.
How can he let that happen?!
He doesn't understand
that he's the one
who has the power to stop it.
He simply can't imagine
that one Little boy
could be that important.
Is it really me?
How could I make any difference?
Maybe he doesn't know what to do!
What do I have to do?
He has to give me a new name.
What if he doesn't come up
with the right name?
He's already chosen it.
He just has to call it out.
Where is he?
Why isn't here?
He still doesn't have confidence
But it's only a story.
It's not real!
It's only a story!
Atreyu, no!
Atreyu!
Don't you have the courage to save us?
Bastian.
I wish I could!
Why don't you do
what you dream, Bastian?
But I can't! I have to
keep my feet on the ground!
Call my name!
Bastian! Please!
Save us!
Alright!
I'll do it! I'll save you!
I will do what I dream!
Moon Child!
Why is it so dark?
EMPRESS: In the beginning,
it is always dark.
What is that?
One grain of sand.
That is all that remains
of my vast empire.
Fantasia has totally disappeared?
Yes.
Then... everything's been in vain.
No, it hasn't.
Fantasia can arise in you.
In YOUR dreams and wishes, Bastian.
How?
Open your hand.
What are you going to wish for?
I don't know.
Then there will be
no Fantasia anymore.
How many wishes do I get?
As many as you want.
And the more wishes you make,
the more magnificent
Fantasia will become.
Really?
Try it.
Then my first wish is...
Yeah!
Falkor, it's even more beautiful
than I thought!
Like it?
Falkor, it's wonderful!
Falkor, it's Like
the Nothing never was!
Atreyu! Artax!
What would you
Like to wish for next?
Yeah!
Look, there they are!
It's a monster!
Get 'em, Falkor!
Let's see how you Like it, chickens!
Down here!
We're gonna get you guys!
Bastian made many other wishes,
and had many other
amazing adventures,
before he finally returned
to the ordinary world.
But that's another story.